# ML_finance

This repository contains various notebooks where we use methods from machine learning (ML) to understand financial datasets. 

This repo is organized as follows:

* **Coursera** contains some homework assignments completed as a part of the Reinforcement Learning in Finance course from Coursera, see <a href="https://www.coursera.org/learn/reinforcement-learning-in-finance?specialization=machine-learning-reinforcement-finance">here</a>. Specifically, I included the three exercises which explain how reformulate the problem of pricing an option using Q-Learning. The basic ideas behind these notebooks can be found in the following <a href="https://arxiv.org/pdf/1712.04609.pdf">paper</a> from Igor Halperin. The interesting result of this work is that (in some simplified set-up) you can recover the Black-Scholes pricing model by taking the $\Delta t\rightarrow 0$ limit of a Q-learning problem.
* In the **workspace** folder I included one notebook where I compute the Sharpe ratio for the Amazon and Facebook stock.
* The folder **dixon_halperin** contains notebooks which are copied from this <a href="https://github.com/mfrdixon/ML_Finance_Codes/tree/master/Chapter9-Reinforcement-Learning">repository</a>. At the moment, no code in this folder is original, but I plan on adding more code exploring how the RL algorithms perform on both real world data as well as when we consider more varied, simulated financial data.
* In **projects** I included notebooks using ML to study real-world financial data. In Eigenportfolios.ipynb I studied various aspects of eigenportfolios which are constructed using stocks from the S&P-500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average. In credit_card_fraud.ipynb I studied how various classification algorithms, mostly involving random forests, perform when detecting fraud in highly imbalanced datasets. In pair_trading.ipynb I studied how unsupervised learning can be used to cluster financial data and can be used to discover potential pair trading possibilities. The final file, hierarchical_risk_parity.ipynb, is still a work-in-progress, but the goal is to understand how to use heirarchical risk parity to construct diversified portfolios.
